Installation of ExponentCMS

1. Download the latest package

The Exponent package is available in the following formats:

    * .tar.bz2 - A bzipped tarball containing the application files, for
UNIX/Linux environments
    * .tar.gz - A gzipped tarball containing the application files, for
UNIX/Linux environments
    * .zip - A zip archive containing the application files, for Windows
environments. 

The latest version of ExponentCMS is 0.96-beta2, available from the
SourceForge project page:

    http://www.sourceforge.net/projects/exponent/

2. Unpack the archive

At this point, you have two options. You can unpack the archive locally and
upload all of the files to the server, or you can upload the archive, and
unpack it on the server.

If you are running on a UNIX box, you can unpack the .tar.gz archive like
this:

    tar -xzvpf exponent-0.96-beta2.tar.gz

and you can unpack the .tar.bz2 archive like this:

    tar -xjvpf exponent-0.96-beta2.tar.bz2

The -p option will preserve file permissions, and is very important. 
Exponent requires certain files and directories to be writable by the web
server, and the standard tar-based distributions have this permission
information preset.

If your are using Windows and the .zip archive, the Exponent Development
team recommends the WinZip utility, downloadable from
http://www.winzip.com/. The .zip archives have not yet been tested with
Windows XP's built in zip support.

Each archive will create a directory named exponent-0.96-beta2. This
directory contains all of the files used by Exponent.

3. Database Setup

For security reasons, the Exponent Install Wizard is not able to create a
database for you.  This must be done outside of the system, before the
wizard is run.  However you do this is up to you (through command-line
database client, phpMyAdmin, phpPgAdmin, etc.).  The installer will ask
you for name of the database to use, as well as a username and password
for accessing the database.  The user account you specify must have enough
rights to perform normal database operations (like running SELECT, INSERT,
UPDATE, DELETE queries, etc.).  The installation wizard will ensure that
the provided account has these privileges.

4. Running the Install Wizard

Once the directory is on the server, in the website's directory, the
web-based installer takes over the process of configuring and setting up
the CMS. To access the installer and finish setting up, visit your
website, and go to the directory that was unpacked. For instance, if your
website (www.example.com) stores its files in /www/www.example.com/, and
you unpacked the archive there, go to
http://www.example.com/exponent-0.96-beta2/)

From there, just follow the instructions and the Exponent Install Wizard
will configure and set up your new Exponent site.